# Uncertainty Quantification and Sensitivity Analysis of the Hess-Smith Panel Method for Potential Flow

## Description
This project implements uncertainty quantification and sensitivity analysis using the **Hess-Smith panel method** to predict the lift generated by an airfoil in 2D potential flow conditions. Monte Carlo simulations are employed to assess the impact of uncertainty in input parameters such as the asymptotic velocity $U_\infty$ and angle of attack $\alpha$.

This project focuses into uncertainty quantification and sensitivity analysis within the framework of a panel method used to estimate the lift per unit span of a NACA23012 airfoil profile. Initially, the model was analyzed, attributing sources of uncertainty to the asymptotic velocity $U_\infty$ and angle of attack $\alpha$. 

A suitable uncertainty model was proposed to describe these uncertainties, employing a gamma distribution for velocity and a Von Mises circular distribution for the angle of attack. The characteristics for both uncertainty models were derived from commercial measurement instruments. 

Subsequently, a Monte Carlo simulation study was conducted to approximate statistical descriptors, evaluating the model at various samples drawn from the mentioned distributions. The convergence of statistical indicators and kernel density estimation was confirmed with an increasing number of samples. 

In a concluding sensitivity analysis, the project assessed the impact of uncertainty in each input on the overall uncertainty. The results revealed a balanced influence, with 60% attributed to $U_\infty$ and 40% to $\alpha$. Differences in the indices obtained using the UQLab library and the ones computed through a custom MATLAB implementation were scrutinized, affirming the robustness of the latter. 

Finally, the project confirmed the convergence of the indices concerning the number of considered samples.

## Requirements
- **MATLAB**
- **UQLab Library** for uncertainty quantification
- **CircStat Toolbox** for the Von Mises distribution (for angular data)

## Installation
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/alessandropase/UQ_HS_panel_method.git
   ```
2. Ensure you have MATLAB and the required dependencies (UQLab, CircStat Toolbox).


## Project Structure
- `Hess_Smith` — Implementation of Hess-Smith panel method for potential flow, parametric with airflow speed and angle
- `ResultSobol'` — Results of the Sobol' indices for the performed simulations in .mat files
- `main_Autoproducted.m` — Implementation of Monte Carlo simulation and Sensitivity Analysis using a code implemented from skratch
- `main_UQLab.m` — Implementation of Monte Carlo simulation and Sensitivity Analysis using a code that uses the [UQLab](https://www.uqlab.com/about) developed by prof. Sudret at ETH Zurich
- `README.md` — Guide and project information

## Contributions
This project was made in contribution with Eugenio Squinzi.
